So Christmas is just a day, a single day where we celebrate the birth of Jesus.
But Advent is a season.
It's a season that leads up to Christmas.
It's a word, Advent, that means arrival.
It's the longing and anticipation of God's people to join in all the history on the earth waiting for the Messiah to come.
We wait, we watch, and we hope.
And so it's a time again, we wanna pause and think deeply about a life and where we are between the first advent, the first coming of Jesus and the one that is coming because the first time Jesus came on that Christmas morning 2000 years ago, well, that was the first coming, the first arrival.
But how many of you know that Jesus is gonna come back again as a conquering and reigning king?
This is the hope of the church.
And so at this moment in time, we live between the first advent, the first arrival of Jesus and the second advent, the return of Jesus.
And how do we live in that in between space?
Well, we live in waiting and in watching just like the first people waited for Jesus.
And it's in this moment that God wants to teach us to draw us into His story in deeper and deeper ways.
So we've been talking about this idea
that a lot of times in Christmas and Advent we're scrambling around, we're going so fast, we don't stop to think or soak anything in and by the end of Christmas we're just exhausted.
But what would happen if we paused and saw in the ordinary lighting of a candle or the people sitting around our table, something not common at all, something holy, a place where God wants to speak and work.
And last week we talked about this idea of light, how light is so simple, so ordinary when you first think about it, but when you think deeply, God speaks and works through light.
so many different ways.
And today we're gonna talk about the power of a table.
A simple piece of furniture that everyone has in their house that seems very ordinary, but there's power in this table, this ordinary piece of furniture.
Now, what is ordinary?
Well, ordinary is something that possesses no special or distinctive feature, something common, something average, something mundane.
And, well, we're gonna see the Bible has a lot to say
about tables and what happens around tables and what God does around tables.
And we're gonna take time at the end of our service to take communion around God's table.
And as we think about how ordinary this seems, just a piece of furniture, well, a table can be the emotional anchor in our home, a place where formation happens, a place where we form values
where we form community, where we see the grace of God in powerful ways.
And we're gonna be sitting around so many tables in the next 11 days.
And we don't wanna miss in the ordinariness, the extraordinary things that God wants to do around a simple table.
So here's what researchers say about a simple table like this.
If you are gathered around a table with family or friends, at least five meals in a week, whether it's a cup of coffee,
or a lunch or a dinner with friends or family.
In that formation, just five of these means, well, what happens?
Not only does nutrition get better, but emotional connections, resilience, the ability to communicate and connect and go through conflict resolution and stay in healthy relationships.
And not only do you get better grades and make more money at work, and you should pay attention to this, all those threats to human flourishing, substance abuse,
addiction, destructive sexual behaviors, violence, delinquency, all go down significantly when people gather together and pause and connect around a simple piece of furniture.
And so I just wanna talk about what the Bible says about five things that a table will do for us.
And we're gonna look back in time in the Bible and we're gonna look forward to the future.
And then we're gonna talk about what does it mean to be in between?
live differently around a table because of what we learned today.
And so here's the first one I want you to write down.
The table is a place of security.
Your number one need as a human being is that someone takes care of you, that you're safe, that your physical needs are better, your need for food and clothing and shelter.
And there's something about a table that builds that connection.
You come to a table empty, hungry, and you leave full, satisfied.
This is instinctive to the human nature.
The most primal need is a baby will cry when a baby is hungry and when that mother feeds that baby, that baby knows that he or she has seen and heard and cared for.
That sense of security leads to human thriving.
And when a baby cries and no one comes, when a child is hungry and no one feeds them, there's this detachment, this separation and this attachment
disorder, this inability to connect is like, well, when I cry, no one comes.
So I have to take care of myself, which is why many kids who are neglected, they will hoard food for themselves to say, you know, I don't know if anyone's ever gonna take care of me, I have to take care of myself.
I can't depend on anyone at all.
It's all depends on me.
And well, a healthy family has a table that says, if you have needs, your needs are gonna be met at this table.
Our family, we raised three boys, but we had lots of kids around our table all the time.
And I can distinctly remember my three sons writing Mother's Day cards to their mother, because I sort of made them do it and helped them do it.
But I would ask them, like, what do you want to write?
And my kids would often write this, Mom, I love you because, and I was waiting for the line, like, because you read stories to me, or you drive me everywhere, you take such good care of me.
Mom, I love you because you cook good food for us.
And at first I was like,
That's such like a little thing, but in that five-year-old heart, that seven-year-old heart, that nine-year-old heart, that primal need to be cared for and loved, that comfort food, macaroni and cheese, a hug to the soul, that shepherd's pie, that meal made especially for them in love, made them not just know they were cared for, but they were deeply loved by their mom or their dad.
That's what a table does.
It provides a deep sense of security in the formation of the human soul.
It seems ordinary, but it's not ordinary at all.
When God created the world, He said of the world, it is good, it is very good.
He was a God who created abundance.
And Psalm 145 describes the way God takes care of every creature on the planet.
Look at this, Psalm 145.
You open your hand and satisfy the desires of every living
thing with God, there's always more than enough because God is generous, providing manna, bread from heaven in the middle of the wilderness.
And Jesus knew that his father was a good provider because Jesus was a foodie.
He was always around tables.
Jesus did more ministry around tables than he did in temples.
Think about that.
He knew that this is not an ordinary place.
He taught people to pray.
And one of those lines, well, was around a simple loaf of bread.
Give us today our daily bread.
What a simple prayer of all the things he could teach us to pray.
When you sit down at a table, remember to look up because there is a God, Jehovah Jireh who's a good and faithful provider and everything you need he will provide.
He is a God you can trust, right?
This is what we learn at a table, place of security.
And Jesus, he pointed not just to the table that he was eating at, he pointed to a future table.
You see, I don't know if you know this or not, but how many people here are foodies?
You love food.
How many people like you have, you have actually a palette where you can distinguish certain types of food and drink and you're like, I can tell a good food from just okay food, like Michelin star food.
Like there's a few of you, I can see you.
The girl's open later, you can go there, it's really good food.
Listen, Jesus talks about not just the bread that God gave us on earth.
He points us to a time in heaven where there is going to be the best food that you've ever eaten your entire life.
Because if you have this impression that when you die, you end up like an angel on a cloud with a harp, frankly, the Bible doesn't talk about that idea at all.
And that doesn't sound like heaven to me at all.
But check out this description of what it's gonna be like to eat around a table and
Heaven from the prophet Isaiah.
On this mountain the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all people.
A banquet of aged wine, the best of meats, and the finest of wines.
Who wants to go have that feast in heaven?
I mean, imagine.
You get a new body in heaven, a new heaven, a new earth.
Imagine enhanced taste buds.
Yeah, come on people.
That cup of coffee.
It's gonna smell so much better in heaven.
That meat, that cheese, that food is gonna be so much better.
Jesus is like, hey guys, this is nothing compared to that.
And this is the security that we have in the kingdom of God.
God's gonna provide our needs.
So how do we live between the past moment of the table and what we see God teach and the future table in heaven when it comes to security?
Well, a simple thing you can do over the holidays, instead of just going to tables and scarfing down food and moving on to the next thing is just pause and think about the people who are around your table.
And maybe the statement looks like this.
To your son or to your daughter, to your husband, to your wife, to your friend.
I made you your favorite meal today because I love you.
That's it.
One sentence can transform a common thing around your table to something.
You've already made the food.
You've already made it because you love them.
Why not just take a moment to express it?
and allow that statement to bring a deep security to them.
She made my favorite food.
He made my favorite food because he loves me.
Wow.
You build security in every one of your relationships and just taking a very ordinary moment and allowing it to become extraordinary.
The table provides a place of security.
Number two, the table is a place of acceptance, not just your physiological needs, but again, your deep need for acceptance.
Human beings need to know I matter.
They need to know if I leave, will someone miss me?
And there's something about a table, a family table where like, you have a place.
Anybody have a place at their table, you always sit.
And sometimes people come and they'll mess the place up and you're like, oh, that's my place.
And it's good to have a place at a table because if you're missing, people notice you're missing.
Oh, you're missing, we missed you.
Because it's just not the same when you're not around the table, this place of acceptance, this human need to belong, to matter.
It's in all of us.
And, well, frankly, when we think about the fact that most people aren't eating around tables anymore, and most people aren't experiencing that deep sense of belonging and acceptance, and we're experiencing what the surgeon general a couple of years called an epidemic of loneliness.
The people eat on their own, they eat in the car, they eat on the go, they don't stop, they don't pause, they don't reflect, they don't have conversations.
And even if we do, this is what robs us of so many of those conversations.
Everyone's eating at the same table, but there's no eye contact.
There's no conversation.
And do you know the number one thing being searched on phones, the number one thing that people use generative AI for today?
It's not to write a college paper or to impress your boss at work with a presentation.
The number one thing that people are using generative AI for today, according to the Harvard Business Review, is therapy and companionship.
So at a table when people are supposed to be connecting and finding companionship and learning and growing, they're looking for some artificial algorithm somewhere.
And this new phrase is emerging, artificial intimacy.
And while the world is becoming more artificial, the table provides us opportunity to become more human, to experience real conversation, deep connection.
and the chance to know that we are accepted.
So I want you to think about this for a moment.
In the temple, when we go way back, God placed a table.
And on the table, he placed something called showbread.
And the showbread was for the priest to eat this bread in the presence of God.
It's like God was saying, I wanna eat with you.
You're my priest, my representative to the people.
I have this bread in the temple on this table.
And I want to eat with you because I see you, I know you, I love you, I accept you.
That's a powerful image in the temple.
Not just that.
Well, we see that people are invited to tables.
In our study of first and second Samuel, David invited a rival's son to his table, a crippled young boy named a Phoebo chef.
And he said, I want you to come and eat at the king's table, eat at my table for the rest of your life.
In other words,
a person that other people did not accept because he was a rival or because he was crippled.
David said, I don't care what other people think, you're gonna sit at the table right by me and you're gonna eat these good meals with me because I accept you.
You belong at this table.
Think about the power of that in Jesus.
Well, Jesus transformed the table in the same way because it didn't matter if you're rich or poor or male or female or religious or non-religious.
You were invited to eat with Jesus.
He ate with all kinds of people.
And he was criticized for this because that's not the way it was supposed to go back in the day.
And the religious leaders, they asked him this question.
Because when the Pharisees saw that Jesus ate with all these different people, they asked his disciples, why does your teacher eat with the tax collectors and the sinners?
And Jesus' response, well, a doctor doesn't come for those who don't think they're sick.
A doctor comes for people who know they're sick.
That's why I eat with everybody.
It's the people who didn't think they were sick that resisted Jesus.
We're all sinners.
We all need Jesus.
But some people didn't think other people deserve to be there.
So who deserves to be at the table of God?
No one.
But who's invited?
Everyone.
Check this out.
In a moment, we're gonna take communion together.
Who's invited to the communion table?
Everybody who will come.
Jesus says, if anyone's hungry, come.
If anyone's thirsty, come.
He's not talking about physical bread and water.
He's talking about living bread and living water.
Forgiveness, restoration, acceptance.
This is what Jesus offers anyone who will come.
And in the future, in heaven, around a table, around a feast, the question is, well, who will Jesus accept then?
Here's how Jesus describes it.
Everyone who acknowledges me publicly here on earth, I will also acknowledge before my father in heaven.
And then he adds, and those who reject me on earth, I'll reject in heaven.
In other words,
Who does Jesus accept?
Anyone who says, I want to believe in who you are and why you came, I want to give my life to you.
And if you'll accept me here on earth, I know you'll accept me in heaven.
That means nothing can separate you from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus.
There is something in the world you can depend on.
It is God's love and acceptance of you in Christ.
And that's good news in the gospel.
And so here's the question.
How do you create a sense of belonging at your table?
How do you do that over this advent season?
I met a man, a young man a couple of years ago.
He was a high school senior.
His name was Dennis Estamon.
And he came here from the nation of Haiti.
And one of the worst moments of every day was lunch period in middle school and high school, because he always ate alone.
He was different.
He didn't have a grasp of the language, the culture was different.
People sort of looked at him and walked by him.
And so he was determined to say, you know, I don't ever want another kid at my high school to eat by himself, to eat by herself.
And so he started an organization of students called We Dine Together.
And here was the commission.
No one at our high school should be eating by themselves.
And so they gather together right for lunch and then they go out and they find people who are sitting all by themselves and they have lunch with them and just say, hey, what's your name?
How long have you been coming to school here?
Are you connected anyone?
Hey, you can join our group.
And it was powerful to watch a high school student who'd experience loneliness and sense of not being accepted and not belonging started a ministry of high school students meeting those needs.
What if you did that with your table in these next couple of days?
Like in the next 11 days, you're gonna be around lots of tables.
What if you found someone who was lonely or someone was not part of your group and said, you know, there's an extra seat at your table here.
You can join us.
Jesus tells a story in Luke 14.
He says, you know, if you're gonna throw a party, don't just throw a party with people like you who can invite you to their party and you can impress them and they can impress you.
Invite someone to your party who's blind, who's lame,
who's poor, who can't do anything for you.
That is the kind of party that brings a smile to the face of my father.
What if, what if that ordinary piece of furniture in your house that you already have four people around had room for five?
And what if that guest could transform the entire conversation that happens around your table?
The table is a place
of security, it's a place of acceptance, it's also a place of identity.
This deep longing to answer this question, who am I?
Why am I here?
It's the existential question that people have asked for centuries and every culture and every generation.
What's my identity?
What's my purpose?
How do I figure that out?
So much of that happens around a table, not as we look for what people say,
But we look to what God says and this sense of identity.
Well, I remember my dad using the table maybe instinctively.
I'm not sure that anyone taught him.
My dad's dad died when he was a very young boy.
And so maybe he watched his mom and grandma do this.
But when I was growing up, no matter who was at our house, my dad would pray before we would eat.
And after dinner,
No phones were allowed to be answered or talked to me.
You couldn't do any of that stuff at the table.
Everything had to be put away for that period of time, those 20 minutes, whatever it was.
And then at the end, he would get this big old King James Bible off the top of the refrigerator and he would open it up and he would read it.
He wouldn't ask any discussion questions.
There would be no conversations.
He would just read it and close it and put it back on the fridge.
Now, when my friends came over in high school, it was totally embarrassing.
I'm like, Dad, you're not going to read the Bible in front of my friends, are you?
Because they're not Christians.
And he didn't say this, but he said this without saying it like, this is the Souter family, and this is who we are, and this is what we do, no matter what anyone else thinks, because we live for God in this house.
And to say that without saying it is a powerful statement about identity.
So over and over you see Jesus.
Jesus is constantly this phrase, he would give thanks
And then he would break bread.
There was this deep connection that Jesus had with every meal around every table that you would pause and you would look up and you would give thanks for a simple meal.
This Hebrew prayer, Baruch Atah Adonai Elohim Melek Halim.
Blessed are you God, King of the universe who brings forth bread from the earth.
That deep sense of identity
that Jesus had with his father, the same deep sense of identity that Jewish people had with God.
Why did God pick the nation of Israel in the first place?
God tells them why.
He says, I didn't pick you because you were smarter than everyone else or stronger than everyone else or more spiritual than everyone else or greater.
I picked you because I picked you.
That's it.
And when the children of Israel, because of their own rebellion,
and they're unbroken, they find themselves stuck in slavery and eat you for 400 years.
You know what God says to them?
Hey, while I battle the Egyptian gods and the Egyptian army, I want you to sit around a table and break bread.
You eat while I fight for you out there, because I'm your God and you're my people.
Think about the power of that sense of identity.
I'm your God and you're my people.
And so around a table,
established for our families, for our friends.
This is who we are because of who God is to us.
Now, if you're imagining around like the Souther Family household that everyone was like, you know, everyone's praying.
Everyone's, oh, thank you, mother for this great meal.
Thank you, father for opening the Bible.
Thank you.
Like that's not how it happened at all.
It was imperfectly perfect, okay?
There are times where we're trying to raise our young kids and we're teaching them how to love each other and they're arguing back and forth and fighting about all these things and one of them stuffs the whole thing in their food in their mouth and food's falling over a place and then one of them tries to burp the ABCs and gets all the way to pee in one burp.
I mean, it's crazy.
Imperfectly perfect.
And for me, I had to learn how to create that space.
My dad had created, but there was this new invention back in the day called the cell phone where you were constantly accessible all the time.
And I had to be discipled.
I had to be trained by my wife.
That listen, just because the phone rings, this is crazy.
It doesn't mean you have to answer.
I know, it sounds crazy.
And I remember the first time when our kids were really young and the phone rang and I felt this like Pavlovian dog response to answer the phone because it, something demanded my response and she said, just watch what happens when you don't answer it.
And I didn't answer it and nothing bad happens.
What would happen if for 20 minutes every day you put this in timeout?
And you allow these conversations to occur.
They're not always going to be perfect.
It's not always going to work out as you think it is.
But this is how a table that's ordinary can become extraordinary in the formation of your family.
And at the Souter household, growing up and today, there is always like another seat at the table.
You're welcome to bring a friend, another family member, a neighbor.
And that sense of identity is, well, God did this for us, so we get to do it for someone else.
You see, when Jesus died on the cross, he didn't just tear down the barrier between us and God.
He tore down the barrier between us and different types of people.
You see, the book of Ephesians says it this way, for he himself, that is Jesus, is our peace.
Who has made the two groups one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility.
The barrier that divides
Us and those people, whoever those people are, those people who look different, who speak different, who sound different, who believe different, who vote different, all those kind of people, those people, Jesus didn't just die to bridge the gap between you and God.
He wanted to tear down the wall of hostility between Jew and gentile, between rich and poor, between slave and free, between men and women, between all those different groups and make us all into one family, all invited to sit at the same
because a relationship with Jesus is strong enough to keep us all there.
That is a powerful idea.
An idea that most people don't think a lot about.
And what does our future look like, our future identity with God?
Not only are we gonna sit around His table in heaven, not only is He gonna be our God and we're gonna be His people, but check this out.
This is what the Book of Revelation says about how God will mark us on that last day.
They will see His face and His name will be on their foreheads.
What?
So check this out.
When you get to heaven, new heaven, new earth, new body, enhanced taste buds, better meals, no sin, sorrow, difficulty, shame, no divorce, no child abuse, none of that stuff.
God's gonna write his name on your forehead so that we no doubt in your mind or anybody else's that you belong to God, that your son or a daughter of God.
You can look in the mirror and see it.
God has marked me.
My identity is in him.
And so how can we use our table to more deeply establish that sense of identity and whoever sits around that table during this advent season?
Well, maybe.
For you, you're like, Doug, just to be honest, I never, I never had a chance to sit around a table like you're describing where like a dad would pray or a mom would cook a homemade meal because she loves and wants to express that love to the kids or the Bible was read.
I mean, I grew up and my dad left and my mom was too busy and we had TV dinners and we were watching TV.
We're not having conversations.
And so like, like, I don't know if I can do that.
Well, here's the beautiful thing about following Jesus.
As followers of Jesus, we look to see how He used tables and say, no matter what my background, no matter how broken it was, I can learn from Him because as a follower of Jesus, I want to be like Him.
And so I want to grow in this, create a new legacy for my family, new traditions, new habits.
So maybe, maybe you start a new habit in the next 11 days.
Maybe you've never done this before, but before you sit down and eat your meal, you pause and you pray.
And your kids,
your roommates, your boyfriend or girlfriend might be like, this is new and a little awkward.
But what if he just stopped and said, hey, I've been thinking a lot about just how blessed we are.
I want to be grateful during this Christmas season.
So let's just take a moment and pray.
Maybe the prayer is this short and simple.
God, we thank you for everyone around this table and for this food we get to eat.
And we just want to say thank you.
That's it.
I think a simple prayer like that would bring a smile to the face of God and a sense that you've made a very ordinary meal, something more than just common, something holy.
And if that habit continued in your life, that would create formation of everyone who sits around your table to know that we want to be grateful people for everything God gives.
Maybe for you, you're like a whole idea of opening the Bible at the end
of a meal and I don't even know where to read like, what do I do?
Well, we created this Advent devotional.
Just open up the day that it is and just read it and just ask the one question at the end and watch what happens.
Again, I'm not saying it's gonna be perfect.
I'm only saying that the way you shape and form the identity to people who sit around your table or buy these simple practices that we see Jesus doing
And we see God's people doing not just in the past and not just in the future, but the chance to do this in the in-between space that we're in right now in the present.
And so we see the table as a place of security.
The table is a place of acceptance.
The table is a place of identity.
It's not a common piece of furniture if we allow it to be something more than that.
Fourth, the table is a place of redemption.
I mean, think about what would keep people from coming to a table where you're accepted
where you find this sense of security and love and belonging identity.
It's, it's, it's shame.
Shame is what keeps people from the table of God and from family tables when relationships are broken and you feel this sense of distance.
When you think about what you said or did to hurt that relationship with that friend, you're like, I can't sit with him and break bread.
Just shame is one of the most powerful emotions and one of the most destructive emotions to the human soul.
Before you think,
About shame, you feel it.
It's that primal.
When Adam and Eve sinned against God, what do they do?
They hid as an instinct.
And shame keeps us away from the table of God and from the people that God gave us to love.
You think about the people of Israel.
As they're having this Passover and God is fighting for them to deliver them from the Egyptians.
As he opens the Red Sea and they go in and they come into the desert and you think they'd be grateful.
You know what they do?
They accuse God of trying to kill them.
And here's the question.
Here's the question they ask about.
This is their accusation against God.
They ask him, can God really spread a table in the wilderness?
In other words, there's 2 million of us.
We're in the desert.
There's no food.
There's no water.
We're gonna die out here.
And God answers their question and says, strike the rock.
I have water for 2 million.
Let bread come down from heaven.
I have bread for 2 million.
Let quail come down.
And I've got meat for 2 million.
I can make a feast in the middle of the wilderness because I am God.
Jehovah Jireh, the God who provides.
Even in their own rebellion, God's bringing redemption, even in their own shame.
Even when they don't deserve it, God is doing all of these things for them.
Think about David.
We read in 1st and 2nd Samuel over this last fall, David falls into sin with Bathsheba, kills her husband, tries to cover it up.
And the consequences keep coming back to David until his own son rebels against him and tries to kill him.
And he's on the run.
He's running out of Jerusalem barefoot, crying, hungry, exhausted with his small band of loyal followers.
He gets across a river and a man named Barzelli comes out with all of this food and creates a feast for him in the middle
of this moment, not what he deserves it, but when he needs it most.
David would later write, God, you have a way to prepare for me a table in the presence of my enemies.
At the time of greatest crisis, at the time of greatest shame, at the time of greatest confusion, God, you provide a feast for me in the middle of those moments.
We watch God do this for the children of Israel.
We watch the God do this for King David.
And we watch Jesus model this in such powerful ways.
Again, Jesus' best stories about the kingdom of God happened not in a temple, but around a table.
In fact, his best story was the story of a father who had two sons who sat at his table.
And the younger son gets impatient and says, Father, I want the inheritance, I want it now.
And the father reluctantly gives this younger prodigal son his half the inheritance.
This prodigal son goes out and wastes it all and runs out of friends and is starving to death and gets to the point where he's like, I can't go back to that table.
I know I'm starving.
And because I can't go back to that table, maybe I can just be a servant who served at that table because then at least I won't starve to it.
So he comes back not to come to the table, just to come back to the house
And the father sees his prodigal son, he runs out and gives him a hug.
And what does the father say to the prodigal son?
And to all the servants who are listening, come and kill the fatted calf, start baking the bread.
Let's have a party because my son was lost and now he's found, we're gonna celebrate around a table.
Son, no matter how far you run, no matter how deep
no matter how long you've been gone, you are always welcome back to my table.
This is our God.
This is our savior.
And this is the power and the depth of his redemption.
Peter denies that he even knows Jesus using profanity humiliates himself, feels the shame.
of not being there for his best friend.
How does Jesus have the conversation?
How does Jesus restore him?
Over a meal, bread and fish.
Now I love fish, but I've never had fish cooked by Jesus.
That had to be pretty good fish.
And what happens in that meal?
See the meal provides sort of a distraction from the awkward eye contact.
When you're eating a meal, it takes away the tension.
You can, and Jesus restores Peter.
around a simple meal.
And our future restoration is heaven, and heaven is going to be around tables.
And that's gonna be a really good day.
And so, question.
How might God use your table in these next few days to be a symbol of redemption?
I mean, maybe it's a singular question you ask in the middle of a meal.
Hey, as we eat this meal, as we approach Christmas,
Is there an area of your life that was broken that God has brought redemption or healing or wholeness?
And just sit back and watch people say, yeah, you know, man, I struggled to keep a job the last couple of months and I had this really bad conversation with my boss and I prayed God, help me to express and have this conversation.
And there's actually a little bit of healing happening there.
or this difficulty or that difficulty, and as you go around the table, you start to realize that God isn't working every person around that table, and it's not always perfect, and it's not always this perfect hallmark miracle, but God is working redemption into our brokenness in all these beautiful ways, and all that happens, not just in an ordinary moment, but when we pause, we see it become a holy moment.
And that brings me to our last idea, the table is a place
of celebration.
The thing about dysfunctional families is they fail to celebrate.
I've met kids that have grown up where their birthday was never celebrated.
I've met people who've never celebrated Thanksgiving meal together or Christmas for that matter.
Because of whatever brokenness was happening, whatever self-centeredness was happening, whatever dysfunction was happening, but the people of God are always called to celebrate.
Because the reality is there's always a reason not to celebrate if we're just being honest.
You're never gonna sit at a table and all the problems are gonna be fixed.
All the relationships are gonna be whole.
There's gonna be money in the bank and all green lights and everything's gonna be great.
You know what that's called?
That's called heaven.
So between here and there, there's always a reason not to celebrate, which means we have to look and be intentional about using a table for celebration.
And there's a moment in,
and the people of Israel's life where they've gone into exile and they come back and the city walls been rebuilt, because Nehemiah helped.
But there's still all sorts of brokenness everywhere.
And the people, they don't have the word of God.
They haven't celebrated Passover.
There's all these broken things.
And so their idea is let's just fast.
And let's just pull back.
But here's what God says to the people.
Go and enjoy choice food and sweet drinks.
And send some to those who have nothing prepared
This day is holy to our Lord.
Do not grieve for the joy of the Lord is your strength.
What God says is the most spiritual thing you can do right now is not read the Bible or fast or pray.
The most spiritual thing, the most holy thing you can do right now is set a table and celebrate because I am with you and I am good and you are my people.
Let's take a minute and celebrate.
All right.
He says this is
a holy day to God.
And so yesterday I was just, I was just watching like certain just regular ordinary moments.
Like I went to a party of all these children who were in foster care and all the families that took care of them.
And I watched them do these gingerbread houses and all the volunteer.
It was, it was really sweet and beautiful.
But the reality is that there's still a lot of brokenness in these kids lives.
And these Christians have stepped into love and care for, and there was this beautiful celebration, even though it's not all whole.
I had a conversation this morning with a good friend.
whose mom just passed away this morning, which means around their Christmas table, the maid checker, the family, the one who is always there, she won't be there.
And there's gonna be this sense of sadness, but there's also this deep celebration that a reunion is coming.
and that he's gonna sit around a table in heaven with his mom.
And there's gonna be no more pain and no more sorrow and no more sadness.
And this is the deep hope that we have in the gospel because Jesus came and is coming again.
And Jesus had this sort of thought process when he took his last Passover meal, which he transformed into what we call communion.
And he says to his disciples, I've longed to eat this meal with you.
The last thing he wants to do is eat with his friends.
He says, I tell you, I will not drink from the fruit of the vine from now until the day when I drink it new with you and the Father's kingdom.
As Jesus takes a simple glass of wine, he says, this is my last glass of wine that we're gonna drink together until I drink it with you in the kingdom of God at a feast at a party called the wedding feast of the lamb.
You see, here's how the Bible
describes in the book of Revelation.
Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb.
The book of Revelation describes kind of like a family reunion that's combined with a rehearsal dinner at a wedding, which is combined with a reception at a wedding where people are speaking and celebrating and hugging and laughing and eating and drinking.
And it is all good because sin and death and sorrow and cancer and child abuse and all the things have been put away and are forever going to be gone and we will be with God.
in heaven for all eternity.
And that's gonna be a really, really, really good day.
So how can we take our table in the next 10, 11 days and make it a moment of celebration?
We can celebrate God and what He's done, but we could also celebrate the people around our table.
See, I don't know about you, but I love bread.
Sour dough.
I love warm bread.
Anybody with me when the bread gets breaded with a little steam, a little butter, olive oil, like anybody hungry?
You know what this bread is made out of?
Yeast, flour, salt, and water.
How does God make something this good?
Out of yeast, flour, salt, and water.
And yet He does.
And He says, taste and see that I am good.
So maybe around your dinner table, you'll pull out a piece of bread and say, Hey guys, you know what this is made out of?
Just common things.
And then you can say, you know what you're made out of?
You know what you're made out of?
You're made out of dirt and water and the breath of God.
And look at you and look at what God has done in your life.
And then, and then you can celebrate each individual person at the table.
Here's what I see in you.
Here's the character I see being developed in you.
Here's the gift I see in you.
And you see how you're using this gift in other people's lives.
And I just want to celebrate each of the people around my table that seem extremely ordinary, but are actually extorted when we step back and see what God has done.
Your table, the table in your house, this ordinary piece of furniture is not ordinary at all.
If you'll stop, if you'll pause, if you'll notice and allow what is common to be
Holy ground, it can be a place of transformation.
Now you might be asking, Doug, what does all this have to do with Christmas?
And that would be a really good question.
So Jesus describes his coming on that first Christmas this way.
As a loaf of bread, look what he says in John 6.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven.
Whoever eats this bread will live forever.
This bread is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
There's nothing more ordinary than bread.
It nourishes billions of people on this planet every single day and Jesus is saying,
I'm the nourishment that has come from heaven to earth because man does not live by bread alone, but I am the living bread.
I can provide forgiveness for your sin.
I can provide redemption for your brokenness.
I can bridge the gap that your sin is created between you and God.
I have come to give my life, my flesh, my body so that you can be restored to God almighty.
And then he says this, so whoever is hungry,
come and eat.
Who's invited to God's table?
Whoever is hungry.
And so we're gonna take a moment to reflect on the coming of Jesus, on his invitation to this table, and it's gonna prepare our hearts for communion, but I just wanna say for those of you who are not Christians, I want you to think about this invitation.
If you don't yet know Jesus in a personal way as savior, I want you to listen to the invitation to come and sit
at the table of God because everyone's invited.
Let's take that moment of reflection now as we sing this song over you.
outside of your door.
But that's when your mercy saw me.
And I was a prodigal, desperate for more.
But that's when your mercy called me.
Don't want an audit to dog with the key.
There's a seat at the table for me.
This is my family.
This is my home.
We're always belonging and never alone.
I'm so excited that we're all invited to come.
and fully redeemed.
One moment with you changed everything.
You call the weary those in need.
You say come take your place at the table with me.
The bride say, calm, calm.
Taste and see the spirit in the bride say, calm, calm.
Come, taste, taste the Spirit in the bright state.
This is the great invitation of God.
During Advent, during Christmas, 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Whoever is thirsty, come and drink.
Whoever is hungry, come and eat.
And you can find a rest for your soul, forgiveness for your sin, grace for the journey.
So we're about to celebrate communion.
If you didn't get your communion elements, I'm gonna ask you to raise your hand so we can provide them for you.
And I wanna say to all those who are here who are not Christians, you're just checking out the church or curious about Christianity, this moment is for you to watch and not participate in because by taking the bread
We're talking about something personal that Jesus did for us, that we have accepted and received by faith.
And we have acknowledged that we are sinners, that we need a savior.
You see, this great invitation to this table demands a response.
And so if you're not in the place where you have a personal relationship with God through His Son Jesus, well, I want to invite you.
You could today.
A relationship with God is only a prayer away.
It's a moment of acknowledgement that you're
Sin has separated you from God.
You're wanting to do your own thing your own way.
It's created a distance between you and God.
And the only way to bridge that distance, well, that's why Jesus came on a rescue mission.
You see, all of us are sinners.
All of us are in need of grace.
We are all beggars telling other beggars where we found bread.
So today you're ready to acknowledge that
You need the forgiveness of God.
You want a relationship with God.
You can simply in your seat just offer a prayer.
You can say something like this, God, I opened my heart, I invite you inside.
Jesus, I believe you came from me.
I believe you died in my place.
I believe God raised you.
And I wanna follow you, whatever that means.
You might not even know the exact words.
You might still be filled without.
You might not know what he's gonna do.
Next, listen, that was all of us at some point.
It's not about the perfect prayer or living the perfect life.
Jesus already did that for us.
It's about receiving His grace and walking in submission to Him.
And so if that's youth, and today we invite you to take communion with us.
Now I'm gonna read to you what happened at this communion table 2,000 years ago.
Jesus, He takes,
a meal called the Passover.
And he tells the old story, but now he gives it new meaning that he will be the Passover lamb that sheds his blood for the forgiveness of his own disciples and all who follow him at this table.
Well, here's how Luke describes it.
Luke 22 14, when the hour came, Jesus and his apostles reclined at the table.
And he said to them, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it finds fulfillment in the kingdom of God.
And after taking the cup, he gave thanks and said, take this and divide it among you.
For I tell you, I will not drink again from the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
And he took the bread and he gave thanks and he broke it.
And he gave it to them saying, this is my body given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
Let's take the bread together and let's remember Jesus.
In the same way after the supper he took the cup,
saying this cup is the new covenant in my blood which is poured out for you.
Let's take the cup together.
Let's remember the sacrifice of our Savior.
What we just experienced was not an ordinary
What seems common is holy.
It connects us to every follower of Jesus for the last 2,000 years over every nation of the world for all who put their faith and trust in Jesus who will one day sit at a table in heaven.
We are now connected not just to Jesus but to them and to each other.
And that is a beautiful, holy, extraordinary thing.
And so our response is Christians.
Well, we're gonna have a chance to stand and sing a response.
Our response will be an anthem.
That God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son.
That whoever believes in him doesn't have to perish but can have everlasting life.
This is our story and this is our song and this is our testimony.
So let's stand together and let's sing about what Jesus did for us as our active response to his grace.
come to the well that never runs dry drink of the water come and thirst no more come all you sinners come find
come to the table he will satisfy taste of his goodness find what you're looking for
this morning before you leave if you pray to receive Christ this morning before we took communion come to the front we want to pray with you talk about the next steps in your journey with Jesus if not we look forward to see you very soon have a great Christmas season
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.